
# Contributing to this FOSS digital library

First, please read the README file at the top of this repository to acquaint
yourself with our general approach.

## Ensure suitable licensing

Any type of digital work can be included so long as it falls under a
suitable license, at the very least one of the Creative Commons (CC)
licenses or one of the licenses approved by the Free Software Foundation
(FSF) or Open Source Initiative (OSI).

## Include references

Many works will include information as to the authorship and source of the
work.  Even so, please be sure an appropriate reference is included in the
companion bibliographic repository.  We will want full references, titles,
authors, dates, publishers, URLs to upstream sources of the work (see the
bibliographic repository's CONTRIBUTING guidelines for more detail.)  What's
more, please include a Wayback Machine link to an archived version of the
work.  If an archive has not yet been created, please direct the Wayback
Machine to make a snapshot of it.  (Links to other archives or mirrors might
be accepted during review).

## Use free formats

Feel free to include multiple formats for the work (eg, HTML, PDF, etc) but
please make sure each is in a format that can at least be opened or played
by FOSS. Generally, we want formats for which there are open specifications
and that are otherwise unencumbered in their use. We want specifically to
avoid formats which are known to be restricted by active patents, for
instance, or for which the primary or only software used with such formats
are proprietary.

## Submit editable versions

Further, please be sure to include formats that are as far down the
production chain as possible, eg, those that are most easily edited by a
human using FOSS.  So, for instance, marked up text would be preferred over
the derivative bitmap file that results from sending that marked up text
through some rendering or production pipeline.

